YOUGORI PROJECTS, CHANGES AND MODELS

Public CLI
  yougori                         Open the main menu; quietly add this project's shortcut
  yougori cli                     Guided menus; arrow keys and Enter to choose
  yougori help                    Show the command reference
  yougori run nginx
  yougori run -d --name website -p 8080:80 nginx:alpine
  yougori run -it ubuntu
  yougori run --gpu nvidia ubuntu sleep 2147483647
  yougori run --isolation microvm ubuntu sleep 2147483647
  yougori machine run C:\Images\ubuntu.iso

Run `yougori` to open the main menu. In a supported project folder, it quietly adds
a shortcut: npm/pnpm/yarn/bun run yougori for Node.js, or python yougori for Python.
Existing shortcuts and files are preserved. This registration does not start the engine,
create containers, install dependencies or run the project. Unsupported, invalid or
unwritable projects do not prevent the menu from opening. Piped commands do not edit files.
Run the shortcut or `yougori launch` when ready to configure and start the project.
The Python shortcut needs Python on the PC; `yougori launch` only needs the installed CLI.
Use lowercase `yougori` on Linux and macOS, where command names are case-sensitive.
In a new project, or when files differ from the last container sync, `yougori`
and `yougori cli` first offer to run the detected or saved command, or continue
to the main menu. Unchanged projects go directly to the menu. The check uses
existing sync metadata, respects the project's ignore rules, and does not start
the engine. Continuing to the menu leaves the changes pending for a later run.
From the home menu, choose a project folder, create
or manage environments, run/chat with models, copy files, share a PC folder,
manage snapshots/backups, set up RunPod, open MCP Vault and its approval/setup
flows, or change startup/storage settings.
The path browser lists folders and files and also accepts pasted paths to other
drives. Stop, deletion, restore and shutdown actions explain their effects and
ask for confirmation. Escape cancels the current flow; Exit leaves workloads
running. Errors return to the menu. An interactive terminal is required.
`yougori help`, `yougori --help` and `yougori -h` print the command reference.
`npm run yougori` keeps its existing project launcher behavior.
`npm run yougori-cloud` runs the same project on a connected Linux cloud server.
Run `yougori` once in an existing Node.js project to add the new shortcut; custom
scripts are preserved. You can also run `yougori launch --cloud` directly, or
`python yougori --cloud` in a Python project.
Each cloud launch asks which connected server to use. Its SSH account needs
access to Docker Engine. Yougori creates a dedicated project container, copies
the filtered project over SSH, installs dependencies, streams dev logs, and
syncs saved edits. First setup asks for resources, access, the run command and
permission to copy .env files. Settings are separate per project and server,
and separate from local launch. Use `npm run yougori-cloud -- --change` to edit them.
Local and public links are forwarded through this PC over pinned SSH; keep
Yougori running while using them. The container's port binds only to the cloud
server's loopback address. Ctrl+C or q removes this session's publications and
stops only its project container, preserving dependencies for the next run.
The cloud server remains connected; other workloads keep running. The live
resource footer reports the selected cloud environment's usage.
During first setup or --change, both Recommended and Customize ask who can open
the app: this computer, local network, quick public link, or your own domain.
Saved domain choices show the current service's domain as "Connected to this
node" and keep it selectable. Unassigned domains are available; domains and
tunnel ports reserved by other nodes/services remain visible but greyed out,
with the owning node named. Live and saved stopped/reconnecting routes count.
This applies to local/cloud project setup, model setup and CLI public-access
menus. Switching public domains replaces only that service's old Cloudflare
publication before publishing the new route; an unchanged route is reused.
Recommended applies the default CPU, memory and ports. For local project
containers, storage is twice the current project folder's file size, rounded
up to whole GiB with a 1 GiB minimum. Measurement includes ignored files,
dependencies and .env files; launcher-internal temporary files and links are
omitted as in the project copy. The measured size and recommendation are shown
before selecting resources. New custom setups start at this storage value too.
Existing storage is kept when it is larger, since disks can only grow.
Cloud project containers use the connected server's existing disk instead of
allocating a separate local disk.
On first launch and --change, "How do you want to run it?" offers the detected
command (normally npm run dev), other project run scripts such as dev:full,
and Linux alternatives to Windows launch scripts, including build-and-start
when the project's scripts provide it. The menu follows script aliases, removes
duplicate commands and ranks commands by the services and build steps it can
recognize. It favors coverage of the app's services over a frontend-only or
backend-only command, then a prepared application server over a development
server or static preview. When a production start needs generated output, it
can pair it with the project's existing build script. The strongest supported
choice appears first, in blue, with (Recommended) on the right and a short reason.
This is a static recommendation, not a runtime check. Unknown script runners,
incomplete service combinations and sequential foreground servers do not receive
a recommendation. Existing explicit command selections remain selected.
Custom command remains available for entering another command. This menu is
shared by local and cloud launches. Commands run inside the container in the project folder.
The choice is saved in ~/.yougori/launch (Windows: %USERPROFILE%\.yougori\launch).
Bulk project copies show measured progress below the copying step: an archive
preparation bar, a transfer bar, bytes completed and bytes left in each phase.
Counting files and finishing the copy stay indeterminate until measurements are
available; transferring the last byte does not mark the project ready. Both the
CLI and the running Yougori engine need the progress update. Older engines still
copy normally, showing a waiting status rather than an estimated percentage.
Sync helper setup and changed files also show measured progress. Database sync
shows the current database and its position in the list, record counts while
reading/indexing, staging changes, validating and committing, and byte counts
for large records and files. Time remaining is estimated from measured advances
in the current step; it appears after progress is observed and resets between
steps. It is not an estimate for the entire launch, which also includes builds
and dependency installation. No files or backup databases are omitted for speed.
Small SQLite records travel in batches of up to 64, limited by encoded byte size;
inventory pages hold up to 512 entries. SQL statements are reused. Large records
keep their bounded transfer, and all expected destination rows are checked in
the same transaction before any write is committed.
Unchanged databases skip record inventories during a live session using SQLite
change versions, including both app writes and the helper's own commits. Helper
restarts, database replacements, mode changes and priority changes invalidate
that shortcut. Unchanged record baselines do not rewrite the sync checkpoint.

Project setup also asks "How should project files sync?" One-way (this computer
to the environment) is the default. Two-way is optional and saves terminal edits,
new files and deletions from /workspace back into the laptop project folder.
The choice is saved per local project or project/cloud server. Existing projects
are asked once after updating; later runs reuse the choice. Use npm run
yougori-change (cloud: npm run yougori-cloud -- --change) to change it again.
Two-way setup also asks which copy takes priority if both changed: This computer
wins, Container wins, or Keep both versions. This includes code, other files,
folder deletion/edit conflicts and SQLite records. Changes made on just one side
still travel both ways. One-way always sends computer changes to the container;
it never pulls container records or files back. Existing two-way projects are
asked for priority once; selecting a winner can overwrite conflicting changes
or apply conflicting deletions on the other side.
Setup asks when changes should sync: On demand, or Continuously. It measures the
whole project folder and recommends Continuously below 2.5 GB, or On demand at
2.5 GB and above. The recommended option is selected on first review; an existing
reviewed choice remains selected when editing settings.
Both sync once at launch. Press y in the running launcher to open the Sync menu:
Sync to container sends computer changes; Sync to this computer receives
container changes and is disabled in one-way mode. Two-way also offers Sync both
ways. A directional handoff keeps opposite-direction changes pending, including
across restarts. Conflict priority is respected; if it selects the opposite
direction, that conflict waits for a handoff in that direction or Sync both ways.
On-demand sessions have no filesystem watcher, no periodic database comparison,
and no final sync on quit. Sync home before quitting when switching to localhost.
Continuous sync checks about every five seconds, watches local
edits, and flushes the configured direction(s) before a normal quit.
The first launch copies the project; subsequent launches send changed files and
deletions. Interrupted checkpoints are recovered by comparing checksums against
the existing workspace, preserving guest-only runtime files. They do not trigger
another full project copy. Temporary transfer errors keep both copies intact;
retry from the Sync menu, or let continuous mode retry while the app keeps running.
Both modes include ordinary project files regardless of
.gitignore or .yougoriignore: databases, uploads, dependencies, builds and .git.
The chosen .env preference still applies; transient sync files are omitted.
Files larger than 256 MiB are supported with bounded transfers.
Edits outside /workspace are not synced.
If both copies changed since their last shared version, including edit/delete
conflicts, the selected priority decides the winner. Keep both versions leaves
the conflicting file or record untouched until resolved. Initial differences
when enabling two-way follow the same preference. Empty directories are tracked
as well as files. Symlinks and special files are
not followed or transferred; their paths are protected from deletion and do not
block other files. Incompatible filenames pause sync with an explanation.
SQLite databases are detected by their file header. Their committed records are
read through SQLite (including WAL writes while the app stays open), compared
against persisted row checksums and transferred in the selected direction.
For an empty workspace, SQLite's page backup creates consistent snapshots,
including committed WAL data, implicit rowids and database metadata. The source
is opened read-only with a pinned read view. These snapshots travel with the
first bulk project copy; their row checksums become the persisted baseline, so
existing records are not sent again in small sync messages. Snapshot and record
checkpoint preparation show progress. Existing workspaces are never replaced
with snapshots. Later DB/WAL/SHM/journal files bypass raw file copying.
Each destination record batch validates expected records and commits
in a transaction with foreign-key checks. Concurrent writes cause a retry, without
acknowledging an unapplied batch. Normal, composite and rowid keys, blobs, 64-bit
integers and logical FTS rows are supported; SQLite shadow tables are not copied.
The helper needs Node.js 22.16+ on both sides and matching database schemas.
Windows canonical project paths use the native filesystem resolver. Directory
detection reuses open database connections and leaves their DB/WAL/SHM descriptors
alone, preserving SQLite's file locks. If the local helper exits, the current
batch stops once, reports its startup/process error and
restarts the helper on the next sync attempt instead of reusing a closed pipe.
Schema mismatches, constraint failures, unsupported keys or a whole previously
synced database disappearing pause that database with an explanation; other files
continue. Whole-database deletion and schema migration are not automated. Other
database engines do not receive record replication from this SQLite helper.
SQLite helper API: https://nodejs.org/docs/latest-v24.x/api/sqlite.html
Interrupted transfers leave original
files intact; checksums and the saved baseline allow reconciliation next launch.
Later launches reuse it automatically while the project's node still exists.
Deleting the node removes its launcher settings and sync metadata; stopping it keeps them.
The launcher also discards stale settings for nodes deleted by older versions, then asks
the first-run questions again. It keeps project source files and package shortcuts.
`npm run yougori-change` opens the settings questions directly, then runs the project.
Run `yougori` once in an existing project to add this shortcut. Existing custom
scripts are preserved. The longer `npm run yougori -- --change` also still works.
Custom commands run as entered, including shell operators such as &&. Set the
application's listening port when prompted. File-sync restarts reuse the choice.
While dependencies install and the dev server starts, the CLI shows an animated
status and the current attempt. Failed installs or nonzero app exits retry up to
two attempts total per launch/restart, with a short delay between attempts.
After the second failure it keeps the error visible and waits for a saved edit
or an explicit restart (r). A normal exit does not trigger an automatic retry.
Failure details identify the failed step and exit code, show available CPU/RAM
limits, and check for new container OOM kills. Exit 137 alone is reported as an
unconfirmed forced kill. To change RAM, quit with q and use `yougori launch --change`.
Long footer links move to their own rows. Narrow terminals show "Open link" with
the full URL as the hyperlink target; u prints full URLs and p opens the public link.
The highlighted "t Open terminal" opens a separate interactive shell while project
logs and file sync continue. Local projects open in /workspace; cloud projects open
inside their project container, not the cloud host. In model chat (including RunPod),
send /terminal; while the model is loading, press t. Model shells open in the active
model environment. Type exit or press Ctrl+] to close the shell without stopping
the workload. Ctrl+C inside that shell interrupts its foreground command only.
You can also use `yougori terminal ENV` from another terminal. A desktop terminal
application is required for opening a new window on Linux.

Python projects are detected by pyproject.toml, requirements.txt, setup.py, manage.py,
main.py or app.py. When package.json is also present, Node.js takes precedence;
launch from the Python subfolder for a separate backend. Python defaults to 3.12;
.python-version can choose the 3.10–3.14 minor series (patch versions follow the image).
The version appears during setup. Dependency metadata still enforces its own Python
requirements; choose a compatible .python-version if installation rejects the default.
Dependencies install with pip from requirements.txt, or an installable pyproject.toml/
setup.py, inside a container virtual environment. uv, Poetry and Pipenv projects currently
need a manually configured container; their lockfiles are never silently ignored.
Django manage.py, main.py and app.py provide suggested commands; otherwise enter a
custom command, such as python -m uvicorn myapp:app --host 0.0.0.0 --port 8000.
Python changes restart the app. Local virtual environments and __pycache__ stay on the PC.
Python uses the official Debian-based Python image and installs Node.js inside it for
Yougori's sync/proxy helpers. Source: https://github.com/docker-library/official-images/blob/master/library/python
Other project types can use containers or yougori.yaml via `yougori cli`/`yougori up`;
automatic shortcuts currently cover Node.js and pip-based Python projects.

The CLI starts or locates the same-user Yougori engine. Standard OCI images are
pulled through Yougori's containerd runtime; Docker Desktop/Engine is not required.
Without -d, run follows logs; Ctrl+C detaches. With -it it opens an interactive
shell; Ctrl+] detaches. For -it without a command, a small keepalive process lets
the shell stay available. Images without a long-running process otherwise exit
normally. Explicit argv after IMAGE is passed literally, without host shell eval.
Ports supplied with -p bind only to 127.0.0.1. LAN and public exposure are explicit
through the existing ports commands and Desktop publishing controls.

Manage every environment using ps, inspect, start, stop, restart, rm, exec, logs.
Use pull, images, image rm, ports, share, gpu, vm and microvm for other operations.
Run yougori help for syntax; the advanced schema-driven API remains available.
Engine/provider limitations still apply: full VMs use a desktop/guest agent rather
than pretending that every OS supports a Linux shell; remote sharing obeys the
owner's invitation permissions. Cloud SSH nodes use saved/pinned SSH identities.

Windows NSIS/MSI installers add the bundled cli directory to PATH; reopen your
terminal after installation. In a source checkout: npm run cli -- run nginx.
The integrated Desktop CLI already includes the public command on PATH. Linux
Debian packages install /usr/bin/yougori and /usr/bin/yougori-desktop separately.
On macOS, add /Applications/Yougori.app/Contents/Resources/cli to your shell PATH
(adjust for the bundle location). Legacy yougori-cli and opendock-cli still work.

Declarative projects
  yougori up [-f path/to/yougori.yaml]
  yougori apply [-f path/to/yougori.yaml]
  yougori down [-f path/to/yougori.yaml]
  yougori up --dry-run

Without -f, search the current directory and its parents for yougori.yaml/yml.
See examples/yougori.yaml for a working web/cache project. Desktop's Projects
button discovers registered projects, the Desktop working directory, and the
default CLI workspace (including its immediate subfolders). Open YAML selects
projects elsewhere. Discovery does not execute a project without Apply & start.

Top-level fields: project, environments, connections, publish.
Each environment supports:
  type: container (default), gpu, microvm, vm, cloud, shared
  image: OCI image; source: local VM disk/ISO or builtin:alpine for a microVM
  cpu: fixed cores; memory: fixed GiB number or e.g. 512MB/4GB; gpu: true/false
  storage: whole GiB (minimum 6); storage_drive: optional drive/folder selection
  command, entrypoint: argument list or guest shell string
  environment: map of names to quoted string values
  working_dir, user, restart: no/always/unless-stopped/on-failure
  ports: guest port, "HOST:GUEST", or {target: 80, published: 8080}
  internet: boolean (default false for YAML)
  volumes: [{source: data, target: /data, read_only: false}]
  permissions: {pc: true, edit: true}
  pc_access: [{path: ./project, read_only: false, target: /workspace}]
  depends_on: [other-service]

Named volumes are project-prefixed. For a PC bind folder use bind: true on a
volume, or pc_access with target. Relative folders resolve against the YAML file,
not the engine's working directory. PC access requires permissions.pc; writable
access also requires permissions.edit. Without target, pc_access uses the existing
My PC folder sharing UI. OS roots and runtime storage cannot be mounted.
OCI startup/volume/variable options apply to containers and OCI microVM workloads.
microVM PC mounts use the existing My PC sharing controls instead of OCI binds.

Connections accept "frontend -> database" or {from: frontend, to: database,
ports: [5432], permissions: [ports]}. They grant explicit private access; internet
is independent. Container service names resolve over this private network.
publish maps services to a hostname or {port: 80, hostname: app.example.com,
token_env: CLOUDFLARE_API_TOKEN}. Save the account in Desktop, or set the token in
the engine's environment before starting it. A port without hostname creates an
explicit public Quick Tunnel. Publishing never invents DNS/account credentials.

For cloud, use type: cloud and cloud: {vendor: ..., host: ..., port: 22,
username: ..., identityFile: ..., hostKey: ...}; this connects an existing server.
For shared, use type: shared and shared: '<copied JSON invitation>'. Cloud VM
provisioning remains available through Desktop deployments and the cloud CLI API.

up/apply reconcile owned nodes and access rules; repeated identical apply reuses
nodes and connections. Image/type/drive changes preserve the old stopped node and
create a replacement. Changing an OCI microVM workload also creates a replacement.
Removed services/data are preserved for explicit review/removal. down stops owned
nodes and removes project-owned publications/My PC shares without deleting data.
Failures identify the affected operation; successfully created nodes remain in
Desktop. Fix the input or inspect the node and retry; no destructive rollback is
performed. A failed node is not silently duplicated. This is not a transactional
orchestration system and changing an application while it runs can need downtime.

Docker Compose import
  yougori import compose.yaml --dry-run
  yougori import compose.yaml
  yougori up
Desktop: Projects > Import Docker Project > review > Create yougori.yaml > Apply.
Import never overwrites an existing yougori.yaml. Supported image-based services
translate commands, entrypoints, environment/env_file/.env interpolation,
dependencies (service_started), CPU/RAM/NVIDIA requests, TCP ports, named volumes,
folder binds, restart behavior and compatible network relationships.
Shell environment interpolation is resolved by the CLI performing import.
Unsupported options fail with an explicit error before any YAML is written.
Build-only services, health-gated dependencies, privileged features, external
networks/volumes and complex Docker-specific networking need adaptation. Use long
volume syntax for Windows drive-letter paths. No unsafe setting is silently lost.

Changes
Open environment settings or its workspace > Changes, or:
  yougori changes ENV
  yougori changes ENV --offset 200
  yougori changes ENV --baseline
Baselines are captured when PC folders are shared. The view reports modified,
created, deleted and uniquely identifiable renamed files; text diffs, hashes,
sizes, package changes, redacted process-variable changes and configuration.
Changes can come from the environment, the user or another application. The view
does not claim which process caused them. A new baseline clears the comparison
without changing source files. Guest inventories begin when a running guest is
first inspected; earlier package/variable changes cannot be reconstructed.
Scans stay inside explicitly shared folders, skip symlinks/special files and are
bounded at 100,000 entries, 2 GiB hashed contents and 45 seconds per folder. Larger
folders produce an explicit incomplete-scan error. Text contents are cached up to
256 KiB per file / 32 MiB per folder; binary/large files still show hashes/sizes.
Pages show 200 file changes with a 2 MiB diff display budget. Package comparison
supports dpkg, apk and rpm; dependency manifests are also visible as file diffs.
Baselines contain shared file text on this PC; environment variable values are
hashed for comparison and never displayed. Disconnecting a share stops scanning it.

Hugging Face models
  yougori model run hf.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM2-135M --neocloud
  yougori model run hf.co/HuggingFaceTB/SmolLM2-135M --neocloud --environment MY_POD --api
  yougori model stop ENV
  yougori model run hf.co/TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0
  yougori model run hf.co/TinyLlama/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0 --api --port 8000
  yougori model chat ENV
  yougori model status ENV
  yougori model api ENV --port 8000
Desktop: Models > choose a model > Run model; chat in the model panel. API access
can also be enabled later and reveals the existing private key. Model environments
appear in Nodes/List and use ordinary lifecycle, resource, terminal and log controls.

With --neocloud in a terminal, choose an existing RunPod GPU pod or create one.
When none exists, setup opens automatically: connect RunPod, choose an available
NVIDIA GPU and disk size, then review the hourly compute price plus storage charges.
In-stock GPUs appear first; out-of-stock GPUs are grey and cannot be selected.
Refresh availability checks stock again. If stock changes before creation, the
CLI returns to the GPU list so another GPU can be chosen.
Create and run provisions the pod, configures SSH and waits before starting the model.
Model nodes are named RunPod/MODEL_NAME, for example RunPod/TinyLlama-1.1B-Chat-v1.0.
Reusing a pod for another model updates its node name; duplicates get a number suffix.
Ctrl+C during that wait opens Stop / Stop and delete for the newly created pod.
The wait distinguishes provider preparation from SSH connection failures. On Windows,
host-key discovery falls back to an isolated, unauthenticated SSH probe if ssh-keyscan
cannot negotiate; model connections still require the pinned server key.
Existing pods must be powered on, with NVIDIA CUDA support and Python 3 with venv.
Scripts select an existing pod with --environment POD_NAME_OR_ID; they never create
one automatically. --cpu, --memory, --storage and --change are local options.
The model runs in a private Python environment in ~/.local/share/yougori-model
inside the pod, reusing installed PyTorch or installing it when absent. One model
runs per pod. Model weights and usage remain in that folder; retention depends on
the pod's storage. Switching models after stopping keeps separate chat histories.
Chat, streaming, /api, API keys, usage, localhost access and optional Cloudflare
access work through pinned SSH. Keep Yougori and SSH connected for API access.
The server binds only to the pod's loopback interface. Ctrl+C opens Stop / Stop and
delete. On Neocloud these stop or permanently delete the RunPod pod; locally they
stop or delete the model environment. Stop is selected by default. Repeated Ctrl+C
presses keep this menu open until Enter selects an action, including during a reply.
Shutdown also ignores further Ctrl+C presses until the chosen action finishes.
A stopped pod may still incur storage charges. The explicit model stop command
only stops the model process and leaves the pod billable. Detach leaves the model
running; after stopping a pod, start it in Neocloud before model chat POD resumes.

For local runs, the first launch downloads a PyTorch CUDA OCI image, pinned Transformers,
Accelerate and Hugging Face Hub dependencies, and model weights. The optional GPU
backend requires supported Windows x64, WSL2 and NVIDIA hardware/drivers. The application checks support and provisions
that backend when needed; it does not silently fall back to CPU. Sufficient storage,
RAM and VRAM are required. Public causal language models supported by Transformers
with safetensors are supported; arbitrary repository Python and pickle weights are
not executed. Gated/private, vision, audio and custom-code model architectures need
additional support. Model weights persist in the environment's named cache volume.
The runner supports text chat from Qwen3.5 checkpoints through Transformers 5.18.0
and uses the checkpoint's saved precision. Config, tokenizer and weights come from
the same repository revision. Architecture and custom decision-head checks run
before downloading weights. Cloudflare/clef includes a custom structured-decision
head and needs its own decision runner; running only its backbone as chat would
discard that head. It is rejected with a specific explanation.

The optional API is http://127.0.0.1:PORT/v1, with /models and /chat/completions.
Use Authorization: Bearer API_KEY. Unauthenticated requests are rejected. Requests
are bounded; one generation uses the GPU at a time. Both streaming and ordinary
JSON responses are supported.
The CLI prints the local API key only when explicitly enabling its API. Store it
privately. /exit leaves the model running; model stop ENV releases its active GPU memory.
